in this lecture,
we're going to go over no Js errors and air types.
And then we're going to create a sample error within our application and then reinforce our
application with a try catch that will allow us to handle that error in a graceful way.
Before we jump into that,
Let's go over how node thinks about errors.
Broadly speaking,
no Js errors work very similarly to any kind of JavaScript error.
There a class that have different types,
like evil air syntax,
error,
etcetera.
As you've been seeing,
we debug this application.
In these lectures,
you've seen different kinds of errors.
Get thrown.
Many of the ones that you've seen have been system errors,
which happened when we're trying to open a file that doesn't exist,
etcetera.
And today we're going to be dealing with users specified errors.
Those are ones that we define as part of the application and throw ourselves.
Let's go ahead and open up our server and down at the bottom.
We're going to define a new route that calls a handler that is designed to throw an error
and crash the application.
So I'm gonna add a route.
Two examples slash air and that's going to route to handlers dot example error.
I'm gonna open up our handlers file and start crafting this.
I'm going to do it down at the same level as the Jason AP I handlers is going to call it
example air handlers dot example error,
and it's going to be a function like any other now the reason we're building this handler
to throw an error is to go over the real life scenario where you built the scaffolding of
your application and the scaffolding is pretty rock solid.
But over time you add more and more handlers,
and it's only a matter of time before one of your handlers has an issue.
So within this example,
Eric,
we're just going to create a new air.
We're going to save our air equals new air,
and the air class is available globally.
You don't need to require it,
but when you create a new air,
you get to define what's going to be thrown when that error is thrown.
So we're basically giving it a name,
and I'm gonna say this is an example,
Hair.
Now the air exists.
We want to throw it,
so gonna throw air.
I'll start up the application now never go over the postman and call this route example.
Slash air and see what happens.
All right,
so enter local host 3000 slash examples slash air Send off their request.
You can say we didn't get any response likely because the system crashed while trying to
produce a response.
So if we go back here,
yes,
we can see that at hammers dot Js at line 3 85 which is right here.
We received this air air.
This is an example Air.
So that is how you throw errors and get it to show up at a certain line.
But let's say that we built this handler and we can't really diagnosis what is going on.
Either we don't have time to diagnose was going on or what's going on.
The air that's being thrown is deep within some library,
and we've opened a support ticket for the library.
But who knows when they'll get back to us etcetera.
And so we need to reinforce our server infrastructure so that this handler can throw this
air as they're doing without taking down the whole application.
Because,
as you see the application is dead now,
it's not going to accept any more requests.
The thread doesn't exist.
So let's go back to server dot Js And look at ways that we can reinforce where Recall this
handler so that we call it in such a way that it can't do anything to take down the
application.
Let's go back over this unified server for a moment.
If you remember,
this is a function we built early on.
It gets all the properties of the request like your l the path,
the query,
string,
object,
etcetera.
Once the request is all gathered up,
it chooses a handler and then routes the request to that handler.
So this actually looks like a good point to jump in and try to intercept any thrown errors
before they crash or threat.
So the first thing we want to do is move all the logic inside of the chosen hand.
They're called back to its own function.
So I'm going to copy everything inside of these brackets.
I'm gonna cut it out,
and then I'm going to find a new function here that is to process the response from the
handler.
We're gonna call it a server dot process handler response.
And it's going to be a function that takes in the response a method trimmed path,
a status code and a content type.
Then inside of here,
I'm going to paste everything I just got,
which means inside of the chosen handler Colback.
What we need to do now is,
rather than running through that logic ourselves,
we just need to call server that process handler response and invoke it with rez,
method,
trimmed path,
status code payload and content type.
Looks like I actually forgot to include payload down here.
Okay.
What is the difference between invoking all this logic directly or invoking it inside of
dysfunction?
So far,
nothing.
These two ways of handling these issues have the exact same effect.
Except that now that this is slim down,
it's easy to wrap it in a try catch.
So we're gonna wrap it in,
try,
and then we're going to catch any exception that is thrown while that handler is being
called.
And when we do catch an error,
for example,
if this handler through this error,
we can log it out by calling debug e.
And remember,
we've defined debug above so that will log it to the console.
And then we can continue on calling server process handler response.
But this time we'll call it with raise method trimmed path.
And then,
rather than the status code that came back from Hammer,
we can call it with a 500 toe.
Let the requester know something really bad just happened and it crashed our server.
Or at least it would have crashed our server if we hadn't have caught the response.
So we're gonna call it a 500.
And rather than returning any payload from that handler since that hand a crash,
we have to create her own payload.
So we're gonna created Jason object called Air and Unknown Air has occurred.
And then we want to make sure that they know that the content type for this response about
what you were trying to request the content type for this response is going to be Jason.
So let's start the at back up and then go to Postman and make that request again.
Now we send the get to the same route,
but it returns back.
It returns back with 500 internal silver air,
a census,
this message saying an air has occurred.
But the APP is still alive.
Nothing has crashed.
We don't even have anything in the console telling us that it crashed because we started
the APP without that no debug flag.
If we start the app with no debug flag node deep of equal server knowed index dot Js and
then make the request again,
we get the same response and we can see the log saying this is an example.
Air has been thrown at handlers dot Js 3 84 which is close to right where we threw that air
.
But as in the last case,
the application is still alive and you can take this request over and over again without
actually dying.
As we told the server to print out non 200 codes in a red,
these five hundreds air coming back in red.
So that is one way to bulletproof your handlers or at least a bulletproof the way you call
them,
so that there's nothing a developer could do really to crash the app from within a handler
.
Now,
unfortunately,
in the wild,
many of the areas or issues that you encounter are going to be a lot more complex than a
line in a file,
simply throwing error.
And so,
in the next lecture,
we're going to go over using the D bugger in detail so that you can understand how toe walk
there with step through your applications in real time.
So let's move on to the next lecture.